# LIBRARY WORLD
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/qHWowxJitnQ
#### Description:
The project has various html pages and flask app. Also many various db files to store data. I use sqlite3 to edit db files and add data. Why flask framework? Because flask is for low end work which less complex and sqlite is use to run light weight operation, hence tried to keep website fast and light weight.
My project is about library management system. It is dynamic and responsive website, built with flask framework. There are databases of books, students and librarian. It help to maintain data about books borrowed and returned and also students who borrow books. Once student borrow a book they should mark it on website and it will be confirm by librarian. It makes process much easier and easy to maintain data . Also if students feel to request a book win library then they can request it  with a medium of  website. Along with it, students can reach out  the list of books available in library. They can search books and borrow it. As we borrow books, we can return it and mention it on website which will verify by librarian. While finding a book we can find a books by title, author and genres. Here in find, we can find a book just by one word from title or genres or author’s name. While requesting a new book, you need a title, author and description about book. On site, for librarian there are login and  various pages to add book and approve request of students. In this project, we can add various features and I am looking forward to add option of ebooks and audio books.
In this project, as soon as we go on site, we get welcome page where two buttons are present out of which one for login and another for signup. We can sign up as new student or login which existing account. After login session is defined and keep logged in as long as you logout. If the user forgot password then they can change the password by entering correct information in form. While sign-up if userid is already taken they it will ask to create new unique id.  Once login is do we can multiple navigation buttons, which are finding book and borrowing one, also to make a request for new books.If the person already have taken a book they there will be return button to return the book. When request is done it will been shown on librarian’s page and if approved by librarian then data will be saved in db files. In librarian’s page, one can add more books. In this project, I collected data from internet as an idle date.
In datebase of books, there are title, isbn number, author, description, number of pages, etc. and so on.
Various html pages are creates and use of jinja templates have been used to create long lists. CSS files have been store separately in static folder of project. i tried to create dynamic button with cool css style and list which some nice effects. Along which functionality, the theme is been preserved through out the website. In background, I tried to keep good images which make site beautiful and standard.
As librarian, credential are give before and there no signup page for security purpose. Librarian has various operation to add books and approve a book . They can check request and add books to shelf.
In future, I am willing to add more features about ebooks and audiobooks options on my website where students can upload ebooks it they have one and it will be able to get be everyone for free.


